A posthumous message from the previous M
leads MI6 agent James Bond to carry out
an unauthorised mission in Mexico City on the
Day of the Dead, where he stops a terrorist
bombing plot. Bond kills Marco Sciarra,
the terrorist leader, and takes his ring,
which is emblazoned with a stylised octopus
before stealing a helicopter to escape.
Upon his return to London, Bond is suspended from
field duty by Gareth Mallory, the current M, who
is engaged in a power struggle with Max Denbigh
(whom Bond dubs "C"), the Director-General of the
new, privately backed Joint Intelligence Service
formed by the merger of MI5 and MI6. C campaigns
for Britain to join the global surveillance
and intelligence initiative "Nine Eyes", and
uses his influence to close down the '00' field
agent section, which he believes is outdated.
Bond disobeys M's orders and travels to Rome to
attend Sciarra's funeral. He saves and seduces
Sciarra's widow, Lucia, who tells him Sciarra
belonged to an organisation of businessmen
with criminal and terrorist connections. Bond
uses Sciarra's ring to infiltrate a meeting
to select Sciarra's replacement, where he
identifies the leader, Franz Oberhauser.
After hearing Oberhauser give the order for the
"Pale King" to be assassinated, Bond is pursued
across the city in his Aston Martin DB10 by the
organisation's assassin, Mr. Hinx. Eve Moneypenny
informs Bond that the Pale King is Mr. White, a
former member of the organisation's subsidiary
Quantum who had fallen afoul of Oberhauser.
Bond asks her to investigate Oberhauser,
who was presumed dead 20 years earlier.
Bond locates Mr. White in Austria,
where he is dying of thallium poisoning. He
tells Bond to find and protect his daughter,
psychiatrist Dr. Madeleine Swann, who will take
him to L'Américain in order to locate Oberhauser;
Mr. White then commits suicide. Bond confronts
Swann and rescues her from Hinx and his forces.
The pair meet Q, who links Oberhauser to Bond's
previous missions, identifying Le Chiffre, Dominic
Greene and Raoul Silva as agents of the same
organisation, which Swann identifies as SPECTRE.
Swann takes Bond to L'Américain, a hotel in
Tangier, and they discover that Mr. White left
evidence directing them to Oberhauser's base
at a crater in the Sahara. Taking a train to a
remote station, Bond and Swann encounter Hinx, who
gets ejected from the train in the ensuing fight,
and later they are escorted to Oberhauser's
base. Oberhauser reveals that SPECTRE has
funded the Joint Intelligence Service while
staging terrorist attacks around the world,
creating a need for the Nine Eyes programme.
In return, C will give SPECTRE unlimited access
to intelligence gathered by Nine Eyes, allowing
them to anticipate and counteract investigations
into their operations. Bond is tortured as
Oberhauser discusses their shared history:
after Bond was orphaned, Oberhauser's father,
Hannes, became his temporary guardian. Jealous
of his father's affection for Bond, Oberhauser
killed his father, staged his own death,
adopted the name Ernst Stavro Blofeld and
went on to form SPECTRE and target his foster
brother Bond; he reveals that he is ultimately
responsible for several tragedies in Bond's life,
such as the deaths of M and Vesper Lynd. Bond and
Swann stun Blofeld by setting off an explosive
wristwatch in his face, and the two escape to
London to prevent Nine Eyes from going online.
In London, Bond and Swann meet M, Q, Bill Tanner
and Moneypenny with the intention of arresting C.
Swann and Bond are separately abducted by SPECTRE
operatives, while the rest of the group proceed
with the plan. After Q succeeds in preventing
Nine Eyes from going online, a struggle between
M and C ends with C falling to his death. Bond
is taken to the ruins of the old MI6 building,
scheduled for demolition after Silva's bombing.
Blofeld—still alive, but now scarred over his
right eye—tells Bond that he must escape before
explosives are detonated in three minutes' time,
or die trying to save Swann. Bond finds Swann and
they escape by boat as the building collapses.
Bond shoots down Blofeld's helicopter,
which crashes onto Westminster Bridge.
Blofeld survives and manages to
crawl away from the wreckage,
only for Bond to confront him at gunpoint.
Blofeld dares Bond to kill him, but Bond refuses
and instead leaves him to be arrested by M; he
reunites with Swann and the two leave the bridge.
The next morning, Bond collects the repaired Aston
Martin DB5 from Q and drives away with Swann.